README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/themixednuts/GhidraMCP/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/themixednuts/GhidraMCP?label=latest%20release&style=flat-square&version=0.2.3" alt="GitHub release (latest by date)"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/themixednuts/GhidraMCP/actions/workflows/build.yml"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/themixednuts/GhidraMCP/build.yml?style=flat-square" alt="Build Status"></a>
  <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Ghidra-11.4.2-blue?style=flat-square" alt="Tested Ghidra Version"></a>
  <a href="LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat-square" alt="License"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/themixednuts/GhidraMCP/stargazers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/themixednuts/GhidraMCP?style=flat-square" alt="GitHub stars"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/themixednuts/GhidraMCP/network/members"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/forks/themixednuts/GhidraMCP?style=flat-square" alt="GitHub forks"></a>
</div>

<!-- Optional: Add a project logo here -->
<!-- <p align="center">
  <img src="PATH_TO_YOUR_LOGO.png" alt="GhidraMCP Logo" width="200"/>
</p> -->

<div align="center">

  [![Install MCP Server](https://cursor.com/deeplink/mcp-install-dark.svg)](cursor://anysphere.cursor-deeplink/mcp/install?name=ghidra&config=eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwOi8vMTI3LjAuMC4xOjgwODAvbWNwIn0%3D)

</div>
<h1 align="center">GhidraMCP</h1>

> Ghidra integration for the Model Context Protocol (MCP)

A Ghidra extension that runs an embedded MCP server to expose Ghidra program data and functionalities via tools.

---

## ✨ Features

GhidraMCP provides comprehensive MCP tools for reverse engineering workflows:

### Core Analysis
- **Analyze RTTI** - Microsoft RTTI structure analysis with type detection and demangling
- **Decompile Code** - Function decompilation to C-like pseudocode with P-code analysis
- **Demangle Symbols** - C++ symbol demangling with multiple format support
- **Execute Scripts** - Run Ghidra scripts within the analysis environment

### Management Operations
- **Data Types** - CRUD operations for structures, enums, unions, typedefs, and categories
- **Functions** - Create, update, and manage function definitions and prototypes
- **Memory** - Read/write bytes, manage segments, and analyze memory layout
- **Project** - Navigate addresses, manage bookmarks, and control project settings
- **Symbols** - Create, rename, delete, and organize symbols with namespace support

### Discovery & Search
- **List Analysis Options** - View available analysis options and settings
- **List Data Types** - Browse program data types with filtering
- **List Functions** - Enumerate functions with detailed metadata
- **List Memory Blocks** - View memory segments and permissions
- **List Programs** - Discover open and closed programs in the project
- **List Symbols** - Browse symbols with type and namespace filtering
- **Find References** - Locate code and data references
- **Search Memory** - Pattern search with hex, string, binary, and regex support

### Utilities
- **Undo/Redo** - Transaction-based undo/redo operations

---

## 🚀 Installation

1.  Download the latest release `zip` file from the [Releases](https://github.com/themixednuts/GhidraMCP/releases) page.
2.  In Ghidra, go to `File` -> `Install Extensions...`.
3.  Click the `+` button (Add extension) in the top right corner.
4.  Navigate to the downloaded `zip` file and select it.
5.  Ensure the `GhidraMCP` extension is checked in the list and click `OK`.
6.  Restart Ghidra.

---

## ▶️ Usage

1.  Ensure Ghidra is running with the GhidraMCP extension active.
2.  Configure the MCP server settings (see 'Configuration' below).
3.  Ensure your MCP Client is configured to connect to the GhidraMCP server (see 'Configuring an MCP Client' below).

> [!WARNING] > **Script Error Dialogs:** Some tools that execute Ghidra scripts may trigger GUI error dialogs via `Msg.showError`. These dialogs **must** be manually closed, or the server will hang and become unresponsive.

> [!TIP] > **Missing fileName Parameter:** When tools request a `fileName` parameter, use the `list_open_files` tool to see available programs. Most tools provide this context automatically on failed calls.

## ⚙️ Configuration

The GhidraMCP server can be configured through Ghidra's application-level settings:

1.  In Ghidra, go to **Browser** → **Edit** → **Tool Options**.
2.  In the left panel, expand **Miscellaneous** and select **GhidraMCP HTTP Server**.
3.  Configure the following options:
    - **Server Port**: The port number for the MCP server (default: 8080)
    - **Auto-start Server**: Whether to automatically start the server when Ghidra launches
4.  Click **OK** to save your settings.

> [!NOTE] > **Port Configuration:** If you change the default port (8080), you must update your MCP client configuration accordingly (see 'Configuring an MCP Client' below).

## 🛠️ Building from Source

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/themixednuts/GhidraMCP.git
    ```
2.  Navigate to the project directory:
    ```bash
    cd GhidraMCP
    ```
3.  Ensure you have [Apache Maven](https://maven.apache.org/install.html) and a JDK (compatible version, e.g., JDK 21 or later recommended for modern Ghidra development) installed.
4.  Copy the following required JAR files from your Ghidra installation directory into the `lib/` directory of this project. Create the `lib/` directory if it doesn't exist:
    - `Ghidra/Features/Base/lib/Base.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Features/Decompiler/lib/Decompiler.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Framework/Docking/lib/Docking.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Framework/Generic/lib/Generic.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Framework/Project/lib/Project.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Framework/SoftwareModeling/lib/SoftwareModeling.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Framework/Utility/lib/Utility.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Framework/Gui/lib/Gui.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Features/MicrosoftCodeAnalyzer/lib/MicrosoftCodeAnalyzer.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Features/MicrosoftDemangler/lib/MicrosoftDemangler.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Features/MicrosoftDmang/lib/MicrosoftDmang.jar`
      > [!NOTE]
      > Paths are relative to your Ghidra installation folder. Exact paths might vary slightly based on Ghidra version and OS.
5.  Build the project using Maven:
    ```bash
    mvn clean package assembly:single
    ```
6.  The installable `zip` file will be located in the `target/` directory (e.g., `target/GhidraMCP-*-SNAPSHOT-ghidra.zip`). Follow the Installation steps above using this file.

---

## 🔌 Configuring an MCP Client

To allow an MCP client (like Claude Desktop or a custom client) to interact with Ghidra via this extension, you need to configure the client to connect to the server endpoint provided by GhidraMCP.

The GhidraMCP server runs within Ghidra itself when the extension is active. It exposes an HTTP endpoint for stateless MCP communication.

### Agent-Specific Setup Instructions

<details>
<summary><strong>🤖 Claude Desktop</strong></summary>

For Claude Desktop, add the following configuration to your `claude_desktop_config.json` file. Adjust the key (`"ghidra"` in this example) as needed:

```json
{
	"mcpServers": {
		"ghidra": {
			"url": "http://127.0.0.1:8080/mcp"
		}
		// Add other MCP server configurations here if needed
	}
}
```

**Configuration file location:**
- **Windows**: `%APPDATA%\Claude\claude_desktop_config.json`
- **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`
- **Linux**: `~/.config/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`

After updating the configuration, restart Claude Desktop to apply the changes.

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>🔧 Claude Code (CLI)</strong></summary>

For Claude Code, use the following command to add the GhidraMCP server:

```bash
claude mcp add ghidra "http://127.0.0.1:8080/mcp" --transport http
```

This will automatically configure the MCP server connection for Claude Code.

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>⚡ Cursor</strong></summary>

For Cursor, you can [install via this link](https://cursor.com/install-mcp?name=ghidra&config=eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwOi8vMTI3LjAuMC4xOjgwODAvbWNwIn0%3D).

Or manually add to your MCP configuration:

```json
{
	"mcpServers": {
		"ghidra": {
			"url": "http://127.0.0.1:8080/mcp"
		}
	}
}
```

**Configuration file location:**
- `~/.cursor/mcp_settings.json` (or your Cursor configuration directory)

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>🛠️ Custom MCP Client</strong></summary>

For custom MCP clients or other implementations, use the standard MCP configuration format:

```json
{
	"mcpServers": {
		"ghidra": {
			"url": "http://127.0.0.1:8080/mcp",
			"transport": "http"
		}
	}
}
```

The server supports standard MCP over HTTP protocol.

</details>

---

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **Port:** The default port is `8080`. This is configurable within Ghidra under **Browser** → **Edit** → **Tool Options** → **Miscellaneous** → **GhidraMCP HTTP Server**. If you change the port in Ghidra, you **must** update the `url` in your client configuration accordingly.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **Server Status:** Ghidra must be running with the GhidraMCP extension enabled for the client to connect successfully.

> [!NOTE]
> **Timeout Issues:** If you encounter timeout problems, refer to the [Ghidra timeout configuration guide](https://github.com/NationalSecurityAgency/ghidra/issues/1613#issuecomment-597165377).

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit pull requests or open issues.
AI agents are also welcome to contribute; please ensure agents refer to the project's contribution guidelines and development conventions (often found in `.cursor/rules/` or a `CONTRIBUTING.md` file if present).

---

## Acknowledgements

This project is heavily inspired by and based on the work of [LaurieWired](https://github.com/LaurieWired). Instead of using a bridge, this plugin directly embeds the server in the plugin.

Commit message:

docs: update README to reflect refactored tool structure
- Rename List* tools to Read* in documentation
- Add dedicated Delete Operations section for new delete tools
- Update Management Operations to clarify they handle CRU (not D)
- Organize tools by logical operation type for better discoverability

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/themixednuts/GhidraMCP/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/themixednuts/GhidraMCP?label=latest%20release&style=flat-square&version=0.2.3" alt="GitHub release (latest by date)"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/themixednuts/GhidraMCP/actions/workflows/build.yml"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/themixednuts/GhidraMCP/build.yml?style=flat-square" alt="Build Status"></a>
  <a href="#"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Ghidra-11.4.2-blue?style=flat-square" alt="Tested Ghidra Version"></a>
  <a href="LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat-square" alt="License"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/themixednuts/GhidraMCP/stargazers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/themixednuts/GhidraMCP?style=flat-square" alt="GitHub stars"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/themixednuts/GhidraMCP/network/members"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/forks/themixednuts/GhidraMCP?style=flat-square" alt="GitHub forks"></a>
</div>

<!-- Optional: Add a project logo here -->
<!-- <p align="center">
  <img src="PATH_TO_YOUR_LOGO.png" alt="GhidraMCP Logo" width="200"/>
</p> -->

<div align="center">

  [![Install MCP Server](https://cursor.com/deeplink/mcp-install-dark.svg)](cursor://anysphere.cursor-deeplink/mcp/install?name=ghidra&config=eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwOi8vMTI3LjAuMC4xOjgwODAvbWNwIn0%3D)

</div>
<h1 align="center">GhidraMCP</h1>

> Ghidra integration for the Model Context Protocol (MCP)

A Ghidra extension that runs an embedded MCP server to expose Ghidra program data and functionalities via tools.

---

## ✨ Features

GhidraMCP provides comprehensive MCP tools for reverse engineering workflows:

### Core Analysis
- **Analyze RTTI** - Microsoft RTTI structure analysis with type detection and demangling
- **Decompile Code** - Function decompilation to C-like pseudocode with P-code analysis
- **Demangle Symbols** - C++ symbol demangling with multiple format support
- **Execute Scripts** - Run Ghidra scripts within the analysis environment

### Management Operations
- **Manage Data Types** - Create and update structures, enums, unions, typedefs, and categories
- **Manage Functions** - Create, update, and manage function definitions and prototypes
- **Manage Memory** - Read/write bytes, manage segments, and analyze memory layout
- **Manage Project** - Navigate addresses, manage bookmarks, and control project settings
- **Manage Symbols** - Create, rename, and organize symbols with namespace support

### Read Operations
- **Read Data Types** - Browse and query program data types with filtering and pagination
- **Read Functions** - Enumerate functions with detailed metadata and filtering
- **Read Memory Blocks** - View memory segments, permissions, and properties
- **Read Symbols** - Browse symbols with type and namespace filtering

### Delete Operations
- **Delete Bookmark** - Remove bookmarks by address or category
- **Delete Data Type** - Remove data type definitions from the program
- **Delete Function** - Remove function definitions and associated data
- **Delete Symbol** - Remove symbols by name, ID, or address

### Discovery & Search
- **List Analysis Options** - View available analysis options and settings
- **List Programs** - Discover open and closed programs in the project
- **Find References** - Locate code and data references
- **Search Memory** - Pattern search with hex, string, binary, and regex support

### Utilities
- **Undo/Redo** - Transaction-based undo/redo operations

---

## 🚀 Installation

1.  Download the latest release `zip` file from the [Releases](https://github.com/themixednuts/GhidraMCP/releases) page.
2.  In Ghidra, go to `File` -> `Install Extensions...`.
3.  Click the `+` button (Add extension) in the top right corner.
4.  Navigate to the downloaded `zip` file and select it.
5.  Ensure the `GhidraMCP` extension is checked in the list and click `OK`.
6.  Restart Ghidra.

---

## ▶️ Usage

1.  Ensure Ghidra is running with the GhidraMCP extension active.
2.  Configure the MCP server settings (see 'Configuration' below).
3.  Ensure your MCP Client is configured to connect to the GhidraMCP server (see 'Configuring an MCP Client' below).

> [!WARNING] > **Script Error Dialogs:** Some tools that execute Ghidra scripts may trigger GUI error dialogs via `Msg.showError`. These dialogs **must** be manually closed, or the server will hang and become unresponsive.

> [!TIP] > **Missing fileName Parameter:** When tools request a `fileName` parameter, use the `list_open_files` tool to see available programs. Most tools provide this context automatically on failed calls.

## ⚙️ Configuration

The GhidraMCP server can be configured through Ghidra's application-level settings:

1.  In Ghidra, go to **Browser** → **Edit** → **Tool Options**.
2.  In the left panel, expand **Miscellaneous** and select **GhidraMCP HTTP Server**.
3.  Configure the following options:
    - **Server Port**: The port number for the MCP server (default: 8080)
    - **Auto-start Server**: Whether to automatically start the server when Ghidra launches
4.  Click **OK** to save your settings.

> [!NOTE] > **Port Configuration:** If you change the default port (8080), you must update your MCP client configuration accordingly (see 'Configuring an MCP Client' below).

## 🛠️ Building from Source

1.  Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/themixednuts/GhidraMCP.git
    ```
2.  Navigate to the project directory:
    ```bash
    cd GhidraMCP
    ```
3.  Ensure you have [Apache Maven](https://maven.apache.org/install.html) and a JDK (compatible version, e.g., JDK 21 or later recommended for modern Ghidra development) installed.
4.  Copy the following required JAR files from your Ghidra installation directory into the `lib/` directory of this project. Create the `lib/` directory if it doesn't exist:
    - `Ghidra/Features/Base/lib/Base.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Features/Decompiler/lib/Decompiler.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Framework/Docking/lib/Docking.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Framework/Generic/lib/Generic.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Framework/Project/lib/Project.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Framework/SoftwareModeling/lib/SoftwareModeling.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Framework/Utility/lib/Utility.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Framework/Gui/lib/Gui.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Features/MicrosoftCodeAnalyzer/lib/MicrosoftCodeAnalyzer.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Features/MicrosoftDemangler/lib/MicrosoftDemangler.jar`
    - `Ghidra/Features/MicrosoftDmang/lib/MicrosoftDmang.jar`
      > [!NOTE]
      > Paths are relative to your Ghidra installation folder. Exact paths might vary slightly based on Ghidra version and OS.
5.  Build the project using Maven:
    ```bash
    mvn clean package assembly:single
    ```
6.  The installable `zip` file will be located in the `target/` directory (e.g., `target/GhidraMCP-*-SNAPSHOT-ghidra.zip`). Follow the Installation steps above using this file.

---

## 🔌 Configuring an MCP Client

To allow an MCP client (like Claude Desktop or a custom client) to interact with Ghidra via this extension, you need to configure the client to connect to the server endpoint provided by GhidraMCP.

The GhidraMCP server runs within Ghidra itself when the extension is active. It exposes an HTTP endpoint for stateless MCP communication.

### Agent-Specific Setup Instructions

<details>
<summary><strong>🤖 Claude Desktop</strong></summary>

For Claude Desktop, add the following configuration to your `claude_desktop_config.json` file. Adjust the key (`"ghidra"` in this example) as needed:

```json
{
	"mcpServers": {
		"ghidra": {
			"url": "http://127.0.0.1:8080/mcp"
		}
		// Add other MCP server configurations here if needed
	}
}
```

**Configuration file location:**
- **Windows**: `%APPDATA%\Claude\claude_desktop_config.json`
- **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`
- **Linux**: `~/.config/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`

After updating the configuration, restart Claude Desktop to apply the changes.

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>🔧 Claude Code (CLI)</strong></summary>

For Claude Code, use the following command to add the GhidraMCP server:

```bash
claude mcp add ghidra "http://127.0.0.1:8080/mcp" --transport http
```

This will automatically configure the MCP server connection for Claude Code.

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>⚡ Cursor</strong></summary>

For Cursor, you can [install via this link](https://cursor.com/install-mcp?name=ghidra&config=eyJ1cmwiOiJodHRwOi8vMTI3LjAuMC4xOjgwODAvbWNwIn0%3D).

Or manually add to your MCP configuration:

```json
{
	"mcpServers": {
		"ghidra": {
			"url": "http://127.0.0.1:8080/mcp"
		}
	}
}
```

**Configuration file location:**
- `~/.cursor/mcp_settings.json` (or your Cursor configuration directory)

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>🛠️ Custom MCP Client</strong></summary>

For custom MCP clients or other implementations, use the standard MCP configuration format:

```json
{
	"mcpServers": {
		"ghidra": {
			"url": "http://127.0.0.1:8080/mcp",
			"transport": "http"
		}
	}
}
```

The server supports standard MCP over HTTP protocol.

</details>

---

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **Port:** The default port is `8080`. This is configurable within Ghidra under **Browser** → **Edit** → **Tool Options** → **Miscellaneous** → **GhidraMCP HTTP Server**. If you change the port in Ghidra, you **must** update the `url` in your client configuration accordingly.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **Server Status:** Ghidra must be running with the GhidraMCP extension enabled for the client to connect successfully.

> [!NOTE]
> **Timeout Issues:** If you encounter timeout problems, refer to the [Ghidra timeout configuration guide](https://github.com/NationalSecurityAgency/ghidra/issues/1613#issuecomment-597165377).

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit pull requests or open issues.
AI agents are also welcome to contribute; please ensure agents refer to the project's contribution guidelines and development conventions (often found in `.cursor/rules/` or a `CONTRIBUTING.md` file if present).

---

## Acknowledgements

This project is heavily inspired by and based on the work of [LaurieWired](https://github.com/LaurieWired). Instead of using a bridge, this plugin directly embeds the server in the plugin.
